[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> How fundamental is spin to
the universe and our lives?
In this episode, we
explore the origin of spin
and how spin produces
everything in our world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You will hear me say,
everything is spinning.
And you might
disagree with that.
It's not necessarily obvious
that spin is everywhere.
Relative to you, things
seem to be stable.
They're not
necessarily spinning.
However, if you look carefully,
the things that you're seeing
are made out of atoms
that have spin in them.
And these atoms
are on the planet
that's spinning at about
1,000 miles per hour.
And that planet is
spinning around the sun.
And by the time
you add that speed,
the planet is going about
68,000 miles per hour.
And the sun is inside a
galaxy that's spinning.
And so, by the time
you add that speed,
everything is going at about
500,000 miles per hour.
And then that galaxy's inside
that cluster that's spinning.
And by the time
you add that speed,
you're at about
1,200,000 miles per hour.
So things are moving really,
really quick and spinning
at very high velocity.
And it's not apparent to us.
Everything seems
stable because we
are looking at things
relative to us that
are spinning at the same rate.
But everything is spinning.
Spin is fundamental
in the universe.
You see it everywhere.
Galaxies are spinning.
Planets, stars,
everything is spinning.
And there is something
really deep about that.
Now, why would energy that's
fluctuating make anything?
Meaning, it could be completely
incoherent, stochastic,
and just fluctuate and
nothing would come out of it.
The only time
something like that--
an organization of
fluctuation would
occur is when there would
be a coherent pattern that
would develop in that field.
Why would a coherent pattern
develop in that field?
Why would there be islands
of coherencies in that field?
Well, if there's a gradient
in the density of that field,
then there would
be automatically
spin that would develop.
So when we look at the vacuum
density, these fluctuations,
the vacuum density at
the cosmological size,
which we are measuring,
it's very low.
It's 10 to the minus 30
grams per centimeter cubed.
And experimentally, when we
look at the vacuum density
at the quantum scale, we
see that the vacuum density
of the quantum scale
is very, very high--
10 to the 93 grams
per centimeter cubed.
So there is a huge
change in density.
This change in density,
in the standard model,
has become the biggest
problem in physics.
It's called the
vacuum catastrophe.
>> Quantum field theory predicts
a very large energy density
for the vacuum.
And this density should have
large gravitational effects.
However, these effects
are not observed,
and the discrepancy between
theory and observation
is an incredible 122
orders of magnitude.
>> And this is the
largest error in physics--
considered the largest
error in physics.
We just published paper showing,
it's not an error at all.
It's because when
the universe grows,
the density drops in
the vacuum density.
And, of course, it
produces this low density
at the size of the universe
and very high density
at the size of a proton.
We made those calculations.
And when we calculated
for those radiuses
for the change of radius from
the proton to the universe,
we got the right density that
we're measuring in both cases.
It all works out beautifully.
So we know that it's
just a change of density
in the vacuum that
produces this discrepancy
between cosmological density
of this ether of the vacuum
and quantum density
of the vacuum.
Imagine a change of
density that high.
Think of a hurricane.
So in the case of a hurricane,
a very small slight change
in temperature
between the surface
of the water of the ocean and
the atmospheric temperature,
a few degrees,
three degrees will
produce a very
large energy event
we call a hurricane, with large
electromagnetic discharges,
millions of tons of
materials spinning.
And when we look at the
hurricane, what do we see?
A structure that is
very, very similar
to what we see when we look
at the galaxy, for instance.
Even in the case of a hurricane,
which you would believe
is a much lower energy
level than a galaxy,
we see antimatter
production at--
they're called sprites,
which are emanating
from the center of a hurricane.
So we see these
sprites of antimatter
that is gamma
emission is occurring
at the center of
hurricane, where
you wouldn't think there
would be the energy levels
to do that.
However, let's continue
with the analogy.
Think at that very small
change in air density
producing that big
of an energy event.
Now, think about 122 orders
of magnitude difference
in the density of the
vacuum between the universe
and the quantum world.
It would spin the
structure of space
very intensely from
the universal size,
all the way down to
the quantum size.
And this spinning
is what organizes
this fundamental
field into structures
that we see as our reality.
We've solved for this
spin vacuum structure
from the universal size all the
way down to the quantum size.
We found that the spin function,
or the change of density,
is spinning everything we see,
all the way down to protons
and subatomic particle.
So really, everything
we're seeing that we think
is matter is actually
space spinning.
That's the only thing we see.
Now, the proof of that--
and this is really important--
is that by writing these
equations this way,
we obviously got the mass for
clusters, for super clusters,
for galaxies, for planets,
atoms, subatomic particles.
When we added the
whole thing up,
we got the correct
mass for the universe.
We didn't get just the mass
of the matter in the universe,
but we got the mass
of the universe, which
includes what is in the
standard model called
dark matter and dark energy.
So let me explain
this a little bit.
In the standard model,
when they run the equations
that we have for
cosmology, they end up
with a deficiency of
mass for the universe.
96% of the mass
of the universe is
missing in the standard model
equations for the universe
to behave the way it does.
At the time, they
just thought, there
must be mass we can't see.
There must be
energy we can't see,
so we're going to call it
dark energy and dark matter.
The dark matter was necessary
for galaxies to stay together.
Meaning, there wasn't
enough mass that's
visible in the galaxy to
hold the stars together,
to have enough gravity for the
stars not to spin out of there.
So they had to have 80%
of the mass, the galaxy,
in dark matter around the galaxy
to keep the mass high enough
for the stars to stay in there.
They did the same thing
with the universe.
For the expansion
of the universe
to happen the way
it is, they had
to add dark energy in the
space, the vacuum fluctuation,
in the space to
make the expansion
of the universe the way it is.
So basically, the
standard model equation
can only account for 4% of
the mass of the universe.
All the rest of the stuff
is a fudge factor called
dark energy and dark matter.
>> Dark matter is one of the
universe's greatest mysteries.
Something is out there
generating gravitational force
that can't be accounted
for by detectable matter.
And even though
detectors have been
built with all
kinds of experiments
to try to detect dark
matter, they still
haven't been able to find it.
>> The problem is
with the equation,
not with the universe.
And so, our equation
gives the correct mass
because it doesn't just
consider the matter.
It considers that the matter
is made out of these vacuum
fluctuations, and it consider
all of the vacuum fluctuations
in the universe.
Think of a galaxy.
All the stars and the dust
and the plasma in that galaxy
makes up what we think of
the mass of the galaxy.
But when we calculate
that, as I said,
we end up deficient in
the mass for the galaxy
to behave that way.
The galaxy spin, like
there is solid body.
Well, that's because
what we see in the galaxy
is just the stuff that's stuck
in the spin of the vacuum
structure, the spacetime
of this super fluid.
And we then calculate that in
the standard model equations
when we calculated the mass.
So, of course, we're
missing most of the mass
because we're missing
the source of the spin.
Think of it as a dark
coffee or a really dark tea.
And you spin it with
your spoon in the morning
before you put the milk.
Take out the spoon,
and you won't
be able to see the coffee spin.
Imagine that you
think of the coffee
in the cup as empty
space because you
don't know it's there.
And then put the milk in it,
and you'll see like a shape
just like a galaxy emerge in
the middle of your coffee.
It's like the standard model
has only calculated the milk
and is missing the coffee.
So of course, the
equation ends up
with the wrong mass
for the whole thing,
because it's missing
most of the energy level
that makes that
phenomenon happen.
The structure of spacetime is
the only thing that exists.
The only thing that
makes up our reality
is the spin of this vacuum
fluctuation producing
super clusters, clusters,
galaxies, stars, planets,
atoms, subatomic particle,
all the way down to the Planck
field, and even the sub-Planck.
It most likely
spins into infinity
and produces singularity.
This is how everything
comes to exist.
When you look around you
at the biological level,
you will see the spin if
you observe very closely,
like the fluids moving
through the trunk of a tree.
The way flowers and plants
emerge, the spin that emerged.
The Fibonacci theory that
you can see everywhere that
produce the spiral
that we see everywhere
in the fractal
structure of nature.
Even the spin of your
blood inside your body,
going through all your
arteries and veins.
The spin of air as it spins
into your lungs as you inhale,
as you exhale as well.
The spin of our weather
system and the structure
of the coriolis forces
of our atmosphere.
You will see spin everywhere,
because spin originates
from this gradient
density change
in the structure of the
vacuum that spins everything
into existence.
And so imagine
you're taking a bath,
and imagine that you have a
rubber ducky in your bath.
And you have the rubber ducky
far away from the drain,
and you pull that drain.
And you observe
that in that region,
there is a coherent
structure that's
being generated by the
gradient in the drain,
by the change in
density in the drain.
Air is coming out, and
the water is going down.
The air coming out spins up.
The water going down spins down.
And if you were to look at the
structure of the water, all
the molecules of the water
in that region of space,
they would all be co-moving
in a coordinated manner.
Your rubber ducky
over there doesn't
feel that the spin of
the drain because it's
too far away from it.
But if you bring
it closer, it will
get caught in that
co-moving structure,
and it will orbit the drain.
This is very much what Einstein
field equation describes.
Einstein field equation
looks at the surface
of the water in our
analogy and the surface
of the water curving towards the
drain as the source of gravity,
as the source of the effect
that the rubber ducky
is falling towards the drain.
But we know from our
analogy that it's not just
the surface of
the water curving.
That that is a secondary
effect of the water
spinning, of all the
molecules of water spinning.
This is the error that was made.
Einstein field equation assume
that the surface of the water
is like a continuous surface.
Of course, you in your
bath, looking at the drain
from in the water and
your rubber ducky,
the surface of the water
appears smooth, continuous.
But you know that if you put
the water under a microscope
that it's made out of
particles, discrete pieces.
These discrete
pieces spin together
and makes what appears to be
smooth curvature on the surface
so the source of this
spin, or the source
of the gravitational effect,
is actually the water spinning.
This is what I discovered is
that spacetime is not smooth.
Spacetime at the quantum
level is discrete--
made of teeny little particle.
And they are very, very small.
There are billions of
times smaller than an atom.
They're at the Planck scale.
>> The energy between these
trillions and trillions of tiny
particles spinning and
interacting together is what
gives protons and
neutrons their mass.
Protons, along
with neutrons, are
the nucleus of the atom,
where the atom's mass is
concentrated.
>> Well, we call it mass because
we see an energy event that
when they're together
produce gravity.
And so we think there's
mass and gravity
and that those
things are separate.
But in fact, there's
just spacetime
spinning, producing an
effect we call a proton.
And that proton produces
a curvature in the space.
The spinning is the
curvature, and that produces
a gravitational effect.
And this is why this
equation we wrote
gives the correct
mass for the universe
without the need of dark
matter and dark energy and all
this weird darkness,
which I called
the dark ages of physics.
But actually, gives
a correct answer
because it is calculating
the source of the creation.
So now, I just explained to
you the source of creation,
and I can prove it to you
because I have the equations
that give the right numbers.
And what I mean by
the right numbers,
I mean, really, really,
really the right numbers,
with very high
level of accuracy.
Including predictions,
for instance,
the prediction of the
radius of the proton,
which is different than the
standard model prediction,
and that has now been confirmed
by experimental studies, which
is really important for a theory
to be able to do predictions
and to have them
confirmed by experiments.
So this is very, very important.
Now you understand the
source of creation.
This is a very profound thing.
You can think of
it philosophically
as something very profound.
Because if you think of the
spin of creation producing you,
producing your
reality around you,
being part of this spinning
mechanism of creation
then you can interact with
it in a very conscious way.
It has a very deep implication
as well to technology.
If you realize that
mass, energy, gravity
is being generated by
spinning spacetime,
then you can go in
laboratory and figure out
how to spin spacetime.
That would maybe produce
all kinds of effect
that could be very
beneficial for humanity.
And we'll discuss that and
later on during the series.
But what's important
in this episode
is that you understand
that all of your reality
is the result of the spin
of this vacuum structure.
And I'm not saying this lightly.
It's very critical that you
feel this within yourself.
I believe that many of the
meditation techniques that
were given to us by
ancient civilization
and advanced masters
around the world
have to do with finding
the center of that spin.
Finding the center
singularity of the frame
of reference of your spin.
And so that would be the
place from which the center
of your existence emerges.
And since it has fractal spin
to infinity, as we describe,
you could find deeper and deeper
level of this center of spin
that makes up your existence.
This is a much
more philosophical,
and you could say even
spiritual description of what
I'm describing in physics.
But the implication
includes as well the dynamic
in which these little particles,
these Planck particles
are moving.
And we're going to discuss that
in further episodes, because it
has implications as well to
consciousness and awareness.
That is, these particles
that makes up the field
are moving in very
specific dynamic structure.
A fluid that's spinning
produces coriolis effect.
These coriolis effects
produce spin, counter spin.
They produce toroidial systems.
These torodial systems
have particles falling in,
particles coming out.
And all of a sudden, you start
to see, oh, OK, so gravity
is the water going in,
and electromagnetism
is the water going out.
And the radiation is
the water going out.
And now you're starting
to see-- and then
if you apply that to
information theory,
it starts to tell
you that like there's
some kind of information
feedback in the universe.
And that leads, eventually,
to the possibility
of being able to explain
consciousness right out
of these equations.
And I want is really stress
that I'm not talking about this
in a very philosophical way.
I'm talking about this very
formally in mathematics.
And these formal mathematics
give the correct answer
with high level of precision for
all the scales in the universe,
including the table of elements.
>> Think of the table of
elements as having different
spin rates within
the vacuum structure,
producing different elements.
When Nassim and his team
applied these equations
to the table of elements,
they got the periodic table,
but in a completely
different way
than from the traditional one.
>> In this case, the table of
element is the result of spin
rate changes in the gradient
of the vacuum of spacetime
and gives the right answer.
So we get all of the matter,
all of the particles,
all of creation that we see.
But most importantly,
the equation
tells us all that you're
seeing and all that makes you
and your world is all
the result of one thing.
It unifies everything
under one thing.
And that is a very
important concept
that has been talked about
across the ages by masters, all
the way through our
history that there
is oneness in the universe.
That everything is one.
Well, this actually proves it.
It's definitely clear that
these equations, which
are very accurate and give
the correct answers for all
of the systems in
the universe, are
equations that can eventually
be utilized to maybe even create
matter.
You could imagine even in
a sci-fi way, a very, very
advanced civilization that
has used this understanding
to eventually create a galaxy
or a universe or a multiverse.
It's very enticing.
When you see these
equations, these equations
can give you the road map
to engineer a universe.
And this is extremely powerful.
And we will discuss the
implication of that technology
in further episodes.
And at the same time, it's
really powerful conceptually
to start to understand our
universe in a way in which we
actually realize that the static
appearance of our existence--
the appearance that
everything that's stable
and nothing is spinning is
actually just an illusion
because we're spinning
at the same rate
as this stuff around us.
And that spin is the
fundamental force
is a result of this gradient
in the vacuum structure
and is the fundamental
mechanics that
produces all of our reality.
[MUSIC PLAYING]